The Joe Rogan experience. So in that section,
I pulled out a book and I was like six years old and I see a guy
chained to the side of a building, staring out, looking like death is upon him.
And that was who DV. And I didn't know anything about what that all meant.
I looked through the pictures and he was hanging upside down and stuff like
that. But when I went to sleep,
I would have these dreams of this guy chained to the side of a building.
And that began my curiosity and love of, of Houdini.
And then that began my curiosity of like,
not just like the magic tricks stuff, but like this stuff that's, to me,
it's more like real. Yeah.
How do those two worlds collide? Because some of the things you're doing there,
they're just insane endurance and mental exercises,
and then other things you're doing or what you would consider magic. Right. So,
so.
I love both separately, like independently. Like I always love,
like I had a karate teacher at the Y YMCA that used to make us all run barefoot
in the snow, in the winter in Brooklyn. And the, all the kids were young.
We were like six, seven, all the kids like, ah, you know,
and afraid they were going to cut their feet on glass or whatever.
And I would run in it and I felt like I could do this because I wasn't good at
other things physically, like I was born at my feet,
turned in and stuff like that. So I felt like this, I could do these things.
So then I've learned how to hold my breath.
And the reason I learned to hold my breath was simply because I was on the swim
team at the Y also,
and the other kids would swim back and forth and they'd destroy me.
Cause my feet didn't function perfectly well.
And what I learned is that if I didn't breathe, if I just swam,
it would save me time because I didn't have to move my head, dip it out and,
you know, right. So I would just swim and a coach would Gale at me,
but suddenly I was no longer in last place. I was like now second.
And sometimes first and that began my like, oh God,
you can actually do what the coach doesn't think as possible.
You could swim there and back without breathing in,
then the older kids would come to see me do that.
And I would like challenge them. I'd be like, um, let's see,
you could stay under the longest and you can go up and down five times.
I didn't understand the physiology of it that like going up and down,
doesn't help.
It's more effective to just sit through the pain and just kind of chill.
But I would just sit there and they'd go up and down and come back down at which
makes it worse that they'd be out and I'd still make it worse because, uh,
the breath holding thing is all about like a CO2 buildup in your bloodstream and
it's about a tolerance level to it. So if you relax and efficiently,
keep your oxygen and not make this CO2 build up more extreme.
You can actually hold more efficiently. So.
When you have that feeling,
everybody has that feeling where you'd need to breathe. And that's.
Not an OTU deprivation. It's a trigger from a CO2 buildup,
which is giving you an alert that for example, in 20 minutes from now,
you will not recover.
And I didn't believe that either some magician friend of mine, who's amazing.
Um, and one of my like heroes in life, uh,
he, he told me a story as I was doing like buried alive, only thing he said,
you know, you know, the Navy seals, you know, they black them out under water,
so they're not afraid of drowning. And I'm like that. Can't no way like,
cause it seems so abstract to me, you know? So,
but it stuck in my brain.
And then when I wanted to do the water tank stunt and I started learning about
free diving and stuff like that,
I suddenly realized blacking out is pretty straightforward.
Like you black out and then you get your head above the water and if you're
supervised, you're fine. So when I went to San Diego with the seals,
I watched what they do and I actually did it, but I didn't black out.
I went back and forth a few times and pulled,
but they have that viewing pool and they wrote the seals up to some 45 pound
weights and they have to walk across the bottom of the pool and the instructors
are swimming above them. And when the, when the seals blackout,
they cut the rope, bring them up to the top and they're fine.
But what that teaches you is that you do not need to worry about being
underwater because if you're with a team and by the way, nobody's try this,
you know, there is extreme, dangerous to shallow water blackouts,
which leads to death.
But if you are in somebody that's training and you have a
team and we want to push it, as soon as you black out,
it's like getting knocked out. But it feels better.
It's not like getting knocked out with a punch. It's like, it's your fault. No,
but no. Yeah. But it choked out as before, right? Yeah, exactly.
Except this one's even better. And then you have all these dreams.
No, it sounded exciting that part.
Of it, when, whenever I wake up from a blackout, I'm like.
Well, that's how people wake up when they get choked out.
Really the same. Yeah. When people get choked out,
they wake up almost like they were dreaming.
Like sometimes they think they're at a disco. Yeah. Yeah.
It's amazing. They're like, oh wow.
And, uh, it's not the best thing in the world for you,
but it's way better for you than getting knocked unconscious. Yeah. Yeah.
Chose the head. Yeah. Choked out is just, uh,
just shuts off the blood to the brain and the brain shuts off and then it comes
back online, but there's no trauma, right? Yeah. But it's not. Yeah.
So it's like blacking out underwater thing.
Probably not a good idea to do too many times though. Right.
You could do it. I mean, I've blacked out underwater a lot. How many.
By the way, so, okay. Times, I.
Don't know, like between 20 to 30, I mean, I like, wow,
by the way you guys are talking about me,
I'm a thing about the breath hold things.
So one time I went 20 minutes and two seconds,
I almost did what you were talking about.
The length of a show that I did 20 minutes and two seconds.
And I had telemetry there and I had pulmonary experts and everything like that.
And my heart rate dropped to eight beats per minute.
Eight shape. And they pulled me up cause they were freaked out. Like, yeah.
But back.
To what I'm saying is the reason besides the Navy seal story that I knew that it
was, it made sense. It was because you hear about the kids in the news,
like in 1984 or whatever was a kid was under an icy river for 45 minutes
with nothing blacked out unconscious underwater for 45
minutes, they rescue him out, pull him back,
recover him and full recovery.
So there's something that the body does it. We don't understand it,
but if you actualize. So because he blacked out and because it was so cold,
the blood shunting occurred.
We're all like the same as when you get called the blood rushes away from the
extremities and protects the vital organs.
And because he didn't inhale the water, cause it was completely out of it.
When they recovered him,
they didn't even have to get water out of his lungs and he was perfectly fine.
Wow. So, but,
but that just shows you that there's like a certain levels of,
of what the body can tolerate, that we have no idea.
So you, in,
in learning how to swim and learning how to go all the way back and forth and
holding your breath,
this started this idea of holding your breath for an extremely long period of
time. Like what had been the record before you had like 20 minutes and how many
seconds? Two seconds. That's what you did. What did you done?
What had you done before that would have been your record?
When I was a kid, I heard as I start reading about Houdini,
his like proud record of his lifetime and he's the underwater escape king for a
hundred years ago. And he had,
he was around the best swimmers and he had access. So,
and he got up to three and a half minutes. So by the time I was like a
teenage Earl, early teenager, I got to three and a half minutes. And.
You think that that was a barrier that couldn't be crossed at while.
I came, I blacked out as I came out, but I didn't know what that all meant.
Right. So I blacked out and was that size like, okay,
three 30 seems like the edge.
But then when I started working on the actual concept of like,
how long can you hold your breath for? Then I started looking into it. I'm like,
oh wow. There's like people that can do five minutes, six minutes,
seven minutes. And then there was a hypothetical record of, um, of,
uh, a hypothetical 13 minute record, but no evidence of it.
And that was on Piero too. So it was a hypothetical bureau to record of 32.
When you.
Say on bureau two was your process. If that flushes everything out
[inaudible] yeah. Yeah. You go purge really.
Hard on pure Tusa, which is like hyper vented,
which gets rid of the CO2 and gives you more room for oxygen. And by the way,
I just went up to 25,000 feet in an airplane ascending at 500 feet per
minute doors open and everything, no oxygen.
And I was with Luke Akins who jumped from 25,000 feet with no parachute land in
that he was with me and two other, the pilot and two other guys,
we just right under 25, this was a 24 7, whatever. And um,
he S I said, let's see who goes hypoxic first. Right? So, no, no, no,
but we have no, but you have to take the ox. The O two,
you have to take the O two monitors. You have to be on top. Right. So,
and I was already in a hypobaric chamber with the FAA in Oklahoma city.
And I started purging just to see what it would do and my levels,
my oxygen levels shot up, which nobody believes is possible.
So I get into the airplane and we put the monitors on and everybody's around the
same. I was actually lower than Luke. I was like at 90, whatever,
5 96, he was at like 97. He's like, oh, get a jokey with me.
And as soon as we crossed 15,000 feet,
his slowly starting to come down and I start doing the breathing technique.
Yeah. Purging out, like I said,
right. My oxygen levels.
And we filmed all this shot up to 98.
And then 99% is I went up to 23
plus thousand feet. Now these guys think I'm a magician. So they're like,
yeah, aha. Like fake there's,
that's what he wrote on the paper next to the levels. Cause he was recording it.
So I took his monitor off of his finger and he took mine.
I put his monitor on my finger, put mine on his bang.
His was dropping around 70 and mine was 98, 99.
Then I switched.
I switched with everybody on the plane and the oxygen levels with the breathing
all the way up to that altitude.
And I'm not recommending this because I haven't tested enough in it,
but they did stay up at 98 99.
And so my evidence for that was you hear about all the Sherpas.
It go up to the top of Everest up to 29,000 feet and they're
not bringing oxygen. I get it. They're acclimating six,
but they're still at 29 plus thousand feet.
So they're doing something that's allowing them to rewire their ability to NACO
go hypoxic.
So this breathing technique,
you're essentially exhaling more than you're breathing in.
So you're breathing a small amount of man.
And that I fill up everything for full,
but I mean full like top to bottom,
hold for a second and then exhale slowly. And I like, for example,
if, when we're done here, if you have 20 minutes,
I'll get you up to a four and a half minute breath, hold it in 20 minutes.
And this is just through these breathing techniques. When we're done with this,
I'll show you how to do it.
And you will get up to four plus minutes for sure.
Did you,
so you you've learned that you could go three and a half minutes or three
minutes plus, right. And, and blackout.
And then how did you have it in your head that you were going to eventually get
to 20 minutes?
Right. Okay. So you really want to hear all that? Yeah. It's a long, oh God,
let's go. Can I forget where I'm going?
Sometimes you might have to remind me where we're going. Okay.
So I know the process because [inaudible].
Well, first of all, I.
Like Houdini, so I love magic,
but I like Houdini and Houdini was like king of cards as well,
but he's a guy that's doing real. And then I like guys that are like, as I go,
I go to the museum of broadcasting. Cause there was no YouTube or whatever.
So I'd look at like these Matt, you search magic. And I'd find like,
guys that would like drink a gallon of water, drink a liter of kerosene.
He would float all the kerosene on top of the water.
And then he would spit out kerosene out of his mouth,
look like a human dragon and then put the fire out with a gallon of water.
So it's that it is magic, but it's uh, it's art.
It's mind blowing. It's an art, it's a performance piece. It's not like,
it's incredible. Now look, there's guys that are card guys that are like that.
Also like lots, lots of people I love.
And they do the cards in a way that's like, but,
but that act to me was what pressed a button. It was like, whoa,